>> Brian Holt: We at this point have
gone almost everything that we've
covered so far.
Pretty generally applicable to Postgres,
my SQL,
Oracle, Snowflake,
any one of those things.
Now, we're gonna start
getting a little bit more
into what is more peculiar to SQLite.
Yeah, basically for
the rest of the time here.
>> Brian Holt: So
we talked a bit about this, but,
SQL is not rigid at all about its typing.
In fact, it's the opposite, it's
intentionally flexible about its typing.
What's nice about this is like you
can almost always take queries for
other databases and
not have any problems with them.
Whereas, like sometimes even mysql and
postgres, which are somewhat
similar in many ways,
will fight each other about types and
how you extract them and things like that.
But just yeah,
be aware if you limit something to 250.
55 characters, it can still be two
gigabytes, and SQLite does not care.
They did add a strict
table function in 2021.
It makes its SQLite slightly
more opinionated about it.
But even they say like,
we don't think this is a good idea, but
we cave to peer pressure essentially.
Yeah, where is it?
>> Brian Holt: I think
it's done at the end.
If you insist on rigid typing,
SQLite supports this development
using strict tables.
If you find a real world use case
prevented that would have prevented
a bug in application, let us know,
because we don't believe you,
[LAUGH] is essentially what they say.
Here, which I thought was just
the funniest thing when I was reading
through this.
Yeah, embrace freedom, not the kind of
freedom I typically think of for sure.
Yeah, cool.
Anyway, you can read their treatise here.
They're smarter computer scientists
than me, so maybe they have a point.
They just that'll like it.
>> Speaker 1: Can you Leverage,
like, ORMs and
TypeScript to sort of do
that enforcement from you,
for you sort of at the application layer?
>> Brian Holt: Maybe I don't know if
Prisma or Drizzle have a built into ' but
like truly important that you really
wanna your emails to be 200 characters,
or less or something like that.
You are gonna have to
write it in app code.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, there's no
timestamp that really does actually
bite you in the ass sometimes
having no times type.
Just seems like a massive miss to me.
But they don't have any sort of timestamp.
They do have a bunch of functions
that will operate on times for you.
So, you just store it as a string and
then you pull it out and
you do conversions on the fly and
then put it back.
If it sounds messy,
it's because it is messy.
>> Brian Holt: I'm very good friends
with the maintainers of moment and
date functions and they're not fans of
how they choose to handle times in SQL.
I'll put it that way.
No Booleans, zeros and ones, true and
false are just aliases of 0 and 1.
I wish I'd always thought that was funny.